# Ideas


---
# Web cache deception

Web cache deception is a vulnerability that enables an attacker to trick a web cache into storing sensitive, dynamic content. It's caused by discrepancies between how the cache server and origin server handle requests.

In a web cache deception attack, an attacker persuades a victim to visit a malicious URL, inducing the victim's browser to make an ambiguous request for sensitive content. The cache misinterprets this as a request for a static resource and stores the response. The attacker can then request the same URL to access the cached response, gaining unauthorized access to private information.

> [!Attention]
> It's important to distinguish web cache deception from web cache poisoning. While both exploit caching mechanisms, they do so in different ways:
> 
> - Web cache poisoning manipulates cache keys to inject malicious content into a cached response, which is then served to other users.
> - Web cache deception exploits cache rules to trick the cache into storing sensitive or private content, which the attacker can then access.


---
# Exploiting static extension cache rules

Cache rules often target static resources by matching common file extensions like `.css` or `.js`. This is the default behavior in most CDNs.

If there are discrepancies in how the cache and origin server map the URL path to resources or use delimiters, an attacker may be able to craft a request for a dynamic resource with a static extension that is ignored by the origin server but viewed by the cache.

### Path mapping discrepancies

URL path mapping is the process of associating URL paths with resources on a server, such as files, scripts, or command executions. There are a range of different mapping styles used by different frameworks and technologies. Two common styles are traditional URL mapping and RESTful URL mapping.

Traditional URL mapping represents a direct path to a resource located on the file system. Here's a typical example:

`http://example.com/path/in/filesystem/resource.html`

- `http://example.com` points to the server.
- `/path/in/filesystem/` represents the directory path in the server's file system.
- `resource.html` is the specific file being accessed.

In contrast, REST-style URLs don't directly match the physical file structure. They abstract file paths into logical parts of the API:

`http://example.com/path/resource/param1/param2`

- `http://example.com` points to the server.
- `/path/resource/` is an endpoint representing a resource.
- `param1` and `param2` are path parameters used by the server to process the request.

Discrepancies in how the cache and origin server map the URL path to resources can result in web cache deception vulnerabilities. Consider the following example:

`http://example.com/user/123/profile/wcd.css`

- An origin server using REST-style URL mapping may interpret this as a request for the `/user/123/profile` endpoint and returns the profile information for user `123`, ignoring `wcd.css` as a non-significant parameter.
- A cache that uses traditional URL mapping may view this as a request for a file named `wcd.css` located in the `/profile` directory under `/user/123`. It interprets the URL path as `/user/123/profile/wcd.css`. If the cache is configured to store responses for requests where the path ends in `.css`, it would cache and serve the profile information as if it were a CSS file.

#### Exploiting path mapping discrepancies

To test how the origin server maps the URL path to resources, add an arbitrary path segment to the URL of your target endpoint. If the response still contains the same sensitive data as the base response, it indicates that the origin server abstracts the URL path and ignores the added segment. For example, this is the case if modifying `/api/orders/123` to `/api/orders/123/foo` still returns order information.

To test how the cache maps the URL path to resources, you'll need to modify the path to attempt to match a cache rule by adding a static extension. For example, update `/api/orders/123/foo` to `/api/orders/123/foo.js`. If the response is cached, this indicates:

- That the cache interprets the full URL path with the static extension.
- That there is a cache rule to store responses for requests ending in `.js`.

Caches may have rules based on specific static extensions. Try a range of extensions, including `.css`, `.ico`, and `.exe`.

You can then craft a URL that returns a dynamic response that is stored in the cache. Note that this attack is limited to the specific endpoint that you tested, as the origin server often has different abstraction rules for different endpoints.

> [!NOTE]
> Burp Scanner automatically detects web cache deception vulnerabilities that are caused by path mapping discrepancies during audits. You can also use the [Web Cache Deception Scanner](https://portswigger.net/bappstore/7c1ca94a61474d9e897d307c858d52f0) BApp to detect misconfigured web caches.

---
### Delimiter discrepancies

Delimiters specify boundaries between different elements in URLs. The use of characters and strings as delimiters is generally standardized. For example, `?` is generally used to separate the URL path from the query string. However, as the URI RFC is quite permissive, variations still occur between different frameworks or technologies.

Discrepancies in how the cache and origin server use characters and strings as delimiters can result in web cache deception vulnerabilities. Consider the example `/profile;foo.css`:

- The Java Spring framework uses the `;` character to add parameters known as matrix variables. An origin server that uses Java Spring would therefore interpret `;` as a delimiter. It truncates the path after `/profile` and returns profile information.
- Most other frameworks don't use `;` as a delimiter. Therefore, a cache that doesn't use Java Spring is likely to interpret `;` and everything after it as part of the path. If the cache has a rule to store responses for requests ending in `.css`, it might cache and serve the profile information as if it were a CSS file.

The same is true for other characters that are used inconsistently between frameworks or technologies. Consider these requests to an origin server running the Ruby on Rails framework, which uses `.` as a delimiter to specify the response format:

- `/profile` - This request is processed by the default HTML formatter, which returns the user profile information.
- `/profile.css` - This request is recognized as a CSS extension. There isn't a CSS formatter, so the request isn't accepted and an error is returned.
- `/profile.ico` - This request uses the `.ico` extension, which isn't recognized by Ruby on Rails. The default HTML formatter handles the request and returns the user profile information. In this situation, if the cache is configured to store responses for requests ending in `.ico`, it would cache and serve the profile information as if it were a static file.

Encoded characters may also sometimes be used as delimiters. For example, consider the request `/profile%00foo.js`:

- The OpenLiteSpeed server uses the encoded null `%00` character as a delimiter. An origin server that uses OpenLiteSpeed would therefore interpret the path as `/profile`.
- Most other frameworks respond with an error if `%00` is in the URL. However, if the cache uses Akamai or Fastly, it would interpret `%00` and everything after it as the path.

#### Exploiting delimiter discrepancies

You may be able to use a delimiter discrepancy to add a static extension to the path that is viewed by the cache, but not the origin server. To do this, you'll need to identify a character that is used as a delimiter by the origin server but not the cache.

Firstly, find characters that are used as delimiters by the origin server. Start this process by adding an arbitrary string to the URL of your target endpoint. For example, modify `/settings/users/list` to `/settings/users/listaaa`. You'll use this response as a reference when you start testing delimiter characters.

#### Note

If the response is identical to the original response, this indicates that the request is being redirected. You'll need to choose a different endpoint to test.

Next, add a possible delimiter character between the original path and the arbitrary string, for example `/settings/users/list;aaa`:

- If the response is identical to the base response, this indicates that the `;` character is used as a delimiter and the origin server interprets the path as `/settings/users/list`.
- If it matches the response to the path with the arbitrary string, this indicates that the `;` character isn't used as a delimiter and the origin server interprets the path as `/settings/users/list;aaa`.

Once you've identified delimiters that are used by the origin server, test whether they're also used by the cache. To do this, add a static extension to the end of the path. If the response is cached, this indicates:

- That the cache doesn't use the delimiter and interprets the full URL path with the static extension.
- That there is a cache rule to store responses for requests ending in `.js`.

Make sure to test all ASCII characters and a range of common extensions, including `.css`, `.ico`, and `.exe`. We've provided a list of potential delimiter characters to get you started in the labs, see the [Web cache deception lab delimiter list](https://portswigger.net/web-security/web-cache-deception/wcd-lab-delimiter-list). Use Burp Intruder to quickly test these characters. To prevent Burp Intruder from encoding the delimiter characters, turn off Burp Intruder's automated character encoding under **Payload encoding** in the **Payloads** side panel.

You can then construct an exploit that triggers the static extension cache rule. For example, consider the payload `/settings/users/list;aaa.js`. The origin server uses `;` as a delimiter:

- The cache interprets the path as: `/settings/users/list;aaa.js`
- The origin server interprets the path as: `/settings/users/list`

The origin server returns the dynamic profile information, which is stored in the cache.

Because delimiters are generally used consistently within each server, you can often use this attack on many different endpoints.

#### Note

Some delimiter characters may be processed by the victim's browser before it forwards the request to the cache. This means that some delimiters can't be used in an exploit. For example, browsers URL-encode characters like `{`, `}`, `<`, and `>`, and use `#` to truncate the path.

If the cache or origin server decodes these characters, it may be possible to use an encoded version in an exploit.

LAB

PRACTITIONER [Exploiting path delimiters for web cache deception](https://portswigger.net/web-security/web-cache-deception/lab-wcd-exploiting-path-delimiters)

Not solved

### Delimiter decoding discrepancies

Websites sometimes need to send data in the URL that contains characters that have a special meaning within URLs, such as delimiters. To ensure these characters are interpreted as data, they are usually encoded. However, some parsers decode certain characters before processing the URL. If a delimiter character is decoded, it may then be treated as a delimiter, truncating the URL path.

Differences in which delimiter characters are decoded by the cache and origin server can result in discrepancies in how they interpret the URL path, even if they both use the same characters as delimiters. Consider the example `/profile%23wcd.css`, which uses the URL-encoded `#` character:

- The origin server decodes `%23` to `#`. It uses `#` as a delimiter, so it interprets the path as `/profile` and returns profile information.
- The cache also uses the `#` character as a delimiter, but doesn't decode `%23`. It interprets the path as `/profile%23wcd.css`. If there is a cache rule for the `.css` extension it will store the response.

In addition, some cache servers may decode the URL and then forward the request with the decoded characters. Others first apply cache rules based on the encoded URL, then decode the URL and forward it to the next server. These behaviors can also result in discrepancies in the way cache and origin server interpret the URL path. Consider the example `/myaccount%3fwcd.css`:

- The cache server applies the cache rules based on the encoded path `/myaccount%3fwcd.css` and decides to store the response as there is a cache rule for the `.css` extension. It then decodes `%3f` to `?` and forwards the rewritten request to the origin server.
- The origin server receives the request `/myaccount?wcd.css`. It uses the `?` character as a delimiter, so it interprets the path as `/myaccount`.

### Exploiting delimiter decoding discrepancies

You may be able to exploit a decoding discrepancy by using an encoded delimiter to add a static extension to the path that is viewed by the cache, but not the origin server.

Use the same testing methodology you used to identify and exploit delimiter discrepancies, but use a range of encoded characters. Make sure that you also test encoded non-printable characters, particularly `%00`, `%0A` and `%09`. If these characters are decoded they can also truncate the URL path.

## Exploiting static directory cache rules

It's common practice for web servers to store static resources in specific directories. Cache rules often target these directories by matching specific URL path prefixes, like `/static`, `/assets`, `/scripts`, or `/images`. These rules can also be vulnerable to web cache deception.

#### Note

To exploit static directory cache rules, you'll need to understand the basics of path traversal attacks. For more information, see our [Path traversal](https://portswigger.net/web-security/file-path-traversal) Academy topic.

### Normalization discrepancies

Normalization involves converting various representations of URL paths into a standardized format. This sometimes includes decoding encoded characters and resolving dot-segments, but this varies significantly from parser to parser.

Discrepancies in how the cache and origin server normalize the URL can enable an attacker to construct a path traversal payload that is interpreted differently by each parser. Consider the example `/static/..%2fprofile`:

- An origin server that decodes slash characters and resolves dot-segments would normalize the path to `/profile` and return profile information.
- A cache that doesn't resolve dot-segments or decode slashes would interpret the path as `/static/..%2fprofile`. If the cache stores responses for requests with the `/static` prefix, it would cache and serve the profile information.

As shown in the above example, each dot-segment in the path traversal sequence needs to be encoded. Otherwise, the victim's browser will resolve it before forwarding the request to the cache. Therefore, an exploitable normalization discrepancy requires that either the cache or origin server decodes characters in the path traversal sequence as well as resolving dot-segments.

### Detecting normalization by the origin server

To test how the origin server normalizes the URL path, send a request to a non-cacheable resource with a path traversal sequence and an arbitrary directory at the start of the path. To choose a non-cacheable resource, look for a non-idempotent method like `POST`. For example, modify `/profile` to `/aaa/..%2fprofile`:

- If the response matches the base response and returns the profile information, this indicates that the path has been interpreted as `/profile`. The origin server decodes the slash and resolves the dot-segment.
- If the response doesn't match the base response, for example returning a `404` error message, this indicates that the path has been interpreted as `/aaa/..%2fprofile`. The origin server either doesn't decode the slash or resolve the dot-segment.

#### Note

When testing for normalization, start by encoding only the second slash in the dot-segment. This is important because some CDNs match the slash following the static directory prefix.

You can also try encoding the full path traversal sequence, or encoding a dot instead of the slash. This can sometimes impact whether the parser decodes the sequence.

### Detecting normalization by the cache server

You can use a few different methods to test how the cache normalizes the path. Start by identifying potential static directories. In **Proxy > HTTP history**, look for requests with common static directory prefixes and cached responses. Focus on static resources by setting the HTTP history filter to only show messages with 2xx responses and script, images, and CSS MIME types.

You can then choose a request with a cached response and resend the request with a path traversal sequence and an arbitrary directory at the start of the static path. Choose a request with a response that contains evidence of being cached. For example, `/aaa/..%2fassets/js/stockCheck.js`:

- If the response is no longer cached, this indicates that the cache isn't normalizing the path before mapping it to the endpoint. It shows that there is a cache rule based on the `/assets` prefix.
- If the response is still cached, this may indicate that the cache has normalized the path to `/assets/js/stockCheck.js`.

You can also add a path traversal sequence after the directory prefix. For example, modify `/assets/js/stockCheck.js` to `/assets/..%2fjs/stockCheck.js`:

- If the response is no longer cached, this indicates that the cache decodes the slash and resolves the dot-segment during normalization, interpreting the path as `/js/stockCheck.js`. It shows that there is a cache rule based on the `/assets` prefix.
- If the response is still cached, this may indicate that the cache hasn't decoded the slash or resolved the dot-segment, interpreting the path as `/assets/..%2fjs/stockCheck.js`.

Note that in both cases, the response may be cached due to another cache rule, such as one based on the file extension. To confirm that the cache rule is based on the static directory, replace the path after the directory prefix with an arbitrary string. For example, `/assets/aaa`. If the response is still cached, this confirms the cache rule is based on the `/assets` prefix. Note that if the response doesn't appear to be cached, this doesn't necessarily rule out a static directory cache rule as sometimes `404` responses aren't cached.

#### Note

It's possible that you may not be able to definitively determine whether the cache decodes dot-segments and decodes the URL path without attempting an exploit.

### Exploiting normalization by the origin server

If the origin server resolves encoded dot-segments, but the cache doesn't, you can attempt to exploit the discrepancy by constructing a payload according to the following structure:

`/<static-directory-prefix>/..%2f<dynamic-path>`

For example, consider the payload `/assets/..%2fprofile`:

- The cache interprets the path as: `/assets/..%2fprofile`
- The origin server interprets the path as: `/profile`

The origin server returns the dynamic profile information, which is stored in the cache.

LAB

PRACTITIONER [Exploiting origin server normalization for web cache deception](https://portswigger.net/web-security/web-cache-deception/lab-wcd-exploiting-origin-server-normalization)

Not solved

### Exploiting normalization by the cache server

If the cache server resolves encoded dot-segments but the origin server doesn't, you can attempt to exploit the discrepancy by constructing a payload according to the following structure:

`/<dynamic-path>%2f%2e%2e%2f<static-directory-prefix>`

#### Note

When exploiting normalization by the cache server, encode all characters in the path traversal sequence. Using encoded characters helps avoid unexpected behavior when using delimiters, and there's no need to have an unencoded slash following the static directory prefix since the cache will handle the decoding.

In this situation, path traversal alone isn't sufficient for an exploit. For example, consider how the cache and origin server interpret the payload `/profile%2f%2e%2e%2fstatic`:

- The cache interprets the path as: `/static`
- The origin server interprets the path as: `/profile%2f%2e%2e%2fstatic`

The origin server is likely to return an error message instead of profile information.

To exploit this discrepancy, you'll need to also identify a delimiter that is used by the origin server but not the cache. Test possible delimiters by adding them to the payload after the dynamic path:

- If the origin server uses a delimiter, it will truncate the URL path and return the dynamic information.
- If the cache doesn't use the delimiter, it will resolve the path and cache the response.

For example, consider the payload `/profile;%2f%2e%2e%2fstatic`. The origin server uses `;` as a delimiter:

- The cache interprets the path as: `/static`
- The origin server interprets the path as: `/profile`

The origin server returns the dynamic profile information, which is stored in the cache. You can therefore use this payload for an exploit.

LAB

PRACTITIONER [Exploiting cache server normalization for web cache deception](https://portswigger.net/web-security/web-cache-deception/lab-wcd-exploiting-cache-server-normalization)

Not solved

## Exploiting file name cache rules

Certain files such as `robots.txt`, `index.html`, and `favicon.ico` are common files found on web servers. They're often cached due to their infrequent changes. Cache rules target these files by matching the exact file name string.

To identify whether there is a file name cache rule, send a `GET` request for a possible file and see if the response is cached.

### Detecting normalization discrepancies

To test how the origin server normalizes the URL path, use the same method that you used for static directory cache rules. For more information, see [Detecting normalization by the origin server](https://portswigger.net/web-security/web-cache-deception#detecting-normalization-by-the-origin-server).

To test how the cache normalizes the URL path, send a request with a path traversal sequence and an arbitrary directory before the file name. For example, `/profile%2f%2e%2e%2findex.html`:

- If the response is cached, this indicates that the cache normalizes the path to `/index.html`.
- If the response isn't cached, this indicates that the cache doesn't decode the slash and resolve the dot-segment, interpreting the path as `/profile%2f%2e%2e%2findex.html`.

### Exploiting normalization discrepancies

Because the response is only cached if the request matches the exact file name, you can only exploit a discrepancy where the cache server resolves encoded dot-segments, but the origin server doesn't. Use the same method as for static directory cache rules - simply replace the static directory prefix with the file name. For more information, see [Exploiting normalization by the cache server](https://portswigger.net/web-security/web-cache-deception#exploiting-normalization-by-the-cache-server).