## Responder

The `-A` flag puts us into analyze mode, allowing us to see NBT-NS, BROWSER, and LLMNR requests in the environment without poisoning any responses. We must always supply either an interface or an IP. Some common options we'll typically want to use are `-wf`; this will start the WPAD rogue proxy server, while `-f` will attempt to fingerprint the remote host operating system and version. We can use the `-v` flag for increased verbosity if we are running into issues, but this will lead to a lot of additional data printed to the console. Other options such as `-F` and `-P` can be used to force NTLM or Basic authentication and force proxy authentication, but may cause a login prompt, so they should be used sparingly. The use of the `-w` flag utilizes the built-in WPAD proxy server. This can be highly effective, especially in large organizations, because it will capture all HTTP requests by any users that launch Internet Explorer if the browser has [Auto-detect settings](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/internet-explorer/ie11-deploy-guide/auto-detect-settings-for-ie11) enabled.

With this configuration shown above, Responder will listen and answer any requests it sees on the wire. If you are successful and manage to capture a hash, Responder will print it out on screen and write it to a log file per host located in the `/usr/share/responder/logs` directory. Hashes are saved in the format `(MODULE_NAME)-(HASH_TYPE)-(CLIENT_IP).txt`, and one hash is printed to the console and stored in its associated log file unless `-v` mode is enabled. For example, a log file may look like `SMB-NTLMv2-SSP-172.16.5.25`. Hashes are also stored in a SQLite database that can be configured in the `Responder.conf` config file, typically located in `/usr/share/responder` unless we clone the Responder repo directly from GitHub.

```sh
sudo responder -I ens224 
```
### Crack

```sh
hashcat -m 5600 forend_ntlmv2 /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt 
```
