- Enumerate with General testing, if you found any changes. Write the structure of the sql command, get the prefix and postfix of the payload and remove the condition as ` OR'x'='x'` and put `*`, and give it to `sqlmap`, now you should choose technique with **intelligent**. 
	- If you are testing in function that display alot of things then try to use `UNION` based. 
	- If `unsuccessful` input give `invalid` message and `successful` input give `valid` that is `boolean`. You should specify what string should appear to confirm that sql injecion was successful using `--string='Hello Again'` in `sqlmap`.
	- if you can trigger error and this error make the website give 500 that is `error` based use combination of techniques like `--technique BE`. use `error_based` worlist and if you found `' OR 1=1/0-- -` trigger error and `' OR 1=1/1-- -` doesn't trigger error. Then you have successfuly detected `error based SQLi`.
- If you give up run sqlmap with `time` based technique. 
- All what is above for `select`queries, now for `update`, `insert` queris. you should do it manully by try to know the original structure of  the sqli query.
	- For `update query`, You can test it using `,` like. `update table_name SET price=1 where id=1`, you can exploit it by adding parameters like this `SET name=paramter1, isAdmin=True` thats valid if you know the right names of parameters in database.


> [!Attention] Sqlmap Usage
> After detecting the prefix and suffix manually, use `--prefix=` and `--suffix=`. So you can get faster results

> [!NOTE] Combination of techinques
> You can combine multiple sqli techniques in sqlmap. like using `B` and `E`, which makes sqlmap use boolean technique with error based for detection.

> [!NOTE] 
> `--risk 3` enable sqlmap to use OR operations.


> [!Danger] 
> Sometimes, there is restrictions on number of characters that is accepted in the input field. So, in that case you should do manual exploitation because sqlmap use big payload.
> Good news is, i have created tampers that makes the payload smaller in  `~/.opt/webResources/sqlmap_tampers/`

You have to update error based wordlist, i don't think its covering everything.